Add documentation for Azure OpenAI (#33010)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/azure_openai_conversation.markdown

---
title: Azure OpenAI Conversation
description: Instructions on how to integrate Azure OpenAI as a conversation agent
ha_category:
  - Voice
ha_release: 2024.7
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@zweckj'
ha_domain: azure_openai_conversation
ha_integration_type: service
ha_platforms:
  - conversation
---

> The Azure OpenAI integration adds a conversation agent powered by [Azure OpenAI](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-services/openai-service) in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Azure OpenAI** {% term integrations %} adds a conversation agent powered by [Azure OpenAI](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-services/openai-service) in Home Assistant.
```

Controlling Home Assistant is done by providing the AI access to the Assist API of Home Assistant. You can control what devices and entities it can access from the {% my voice_assistants title="exposed entities page" %}. The AI is able to provide you information about your devices and control them.

This integration does not integrate with [sentence triggers](/docs/automation/trigger/#sentence-trigger).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Prerequisites

```

> This integration requires an Azure OpenAI instance, with an active model deployed.

Reviewer: By instance, you mean account? Do I need to have login credentials or a token ready or anything like that, before I can add the integration to Home Assistant?
